This video will walk you through creating a "Hello World" graph using the HelloWorldApp component in EAGLE. This graph will output a greeting text, including a name that you can change in its parameters. It will be saved to disk using a File component.
Before constructing a graph, click on the "New" menu so you can give your new graph a name. If you don't do this at this step, you will be required to enter a name on saving the graph.
When you create a new graph, a "Description Node" is created. This node doesn't have inputs and outputs, but allows you to write some text describing your graph. This will help yourself or others to understand what the graph does later.
Two palettes containing a range of components are pre-loaded into the left pane by default when you start EAGLE. You can collapse the top palette by clicking its header.
For any component in a palette, hovering over the icon on the left-hand side will show you information about that component and what it does.
Clicking the "+" on the right-hand side of the component will add it to your workspace. A new node is created, displaying its name and any input or output ports that it has by default. Nodes can be moved, and some can be resized.
In the right hand pane, when the "Node" tab is selected, information is displayed about the component and its properties. Its parameters may be edited here. The HelloWorldApp has a parameter labeled "greet". Its value can be edited to contain any text you prefer.
To write the output of the HelloWorldApp to disk, a "File" component is added. This component is found in the default "All Nodes" palette. When it is added, the node is displayed as an icon by default. Selecting it changes it to a regular node.
The file component doesn't have any input or output ports by default. An input port may be added by clicking on the "+" under "Input Ports" in the Node pane. The "hello" port is selected so it can be connected to the same output port on the HelloWorldApp node.
Now that the two nodes have matching output and input ports, they can be connected by an edge. To create an edge, click on the output port and drag to the input port. When this graph is translated and executed, a "hello" event generated by the HelloWorldApp will trigger the File node to save the greeting text to disk.